---
layout: page
title: Text to Image Synthesis
description: Implemented StackGAN and analyzed importance of stacked architecture.
img: assets/img/proj5_title.jpg
importance: 2
category: Computer Vision
---

Synthesizing photo-realistic images from text descriptions has been a challenging problem in computer vision and has many practical applications. Generated images rarely reflected the meaning of text descriptions and failed to contain important details in the text. The paper I implemented broke down the process of generation into two stages using Generative Adversarial Networks. 

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/proj5_stackgan.jpg" title="StackGAN" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Comparison of the proposed StackGAN and a vanilla one-stage GAN for generating 256×256 images.
</div>

The Stage-I GAN sketches the primitive shape and colors of the object based on the given text description, yielding Stage-I low-resolution images. The Stage-II GAN takes Stage-I results and text descriptions as inputs, and generates high-resolution images with photo-realistic details as shown in the image above.

Firstly, text embeddings were generated by passing the input description through a fully connected layer. A series of up-sampling generator blocks would then generate a noisy image which was then fed to the discriminator to output a decision score. The low-resolution images from Stage I GAN along with the discriminator embedding output was given as input to Stage II GAN along with original text embeddings. After passing these through stage II Generator and Discriminator, a high resolution detailed image was outputted. The model architecture can be seen below.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/proj5_title.jpg" title="StackGAN model" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    StackGAN model architecture.
</div>

The StackGAN model had better inception scores on Oxford-102 and COCO datasets than the existing state-of-the-art models then.